all information whatsoever can be
translated into terms of Yang and Yin
Helen what's the concept of yin and yang
lies at the basis of Taoist philosophy
it makes a lot of appearances in popular
and consumer culture representing things
like balance and inner peace but the
profanity of yin and yang goes way
beyond that when we really get this
mysterious philosophy it may change our
view on the universe forever this video
is an attempt to explain the deep
meaning of yin and yang
[Music]
the idea behind agin and yang is kind of
paradoxical the black and white stand
for two opposing forces
there are also complementary this
constant mutual attraction and repulsion
causes constant change that manifests in
what we call the universe phenomena like
life and death winter and summer matter
and emptiness are all physical
manifestations of yin and yang yin and
yang can be translated as dark light or
negative positive and is often referred
to as masculine versus feminine
especially in the ancient master piece
written by Lao Tzu called the daodejing
we can see that he talks about the
feminine or the great mother being the
mysterious receptive and passive force
represented by the black part of the
yin-yang symbol and the masculine being
the active force that is basically most
visible and prominent represented by the
white part now this isn't meant to be
sexist the word feminine is a way to
describe the characteristics of one
opposite while the masculine describes
the other men and women both possess yin
and yang characteristics which was also
observed by Swiss psychologist Carl Jung
we spoke about the unconscious masculine
side of the woman the Animus and the
unconscious feminine side of the man
the anima moreover when we look at the
yin and yang symbol we see a black dot
in the white area and a white dot in the
black area representing the idea that
both feminine and masculine carry the
seed of one another so what are the
differences between yin and yang and
what can be considered yin and what can
be considered yang before I'm able to
explain this it's important to note that
there are no absolute what's Yin or yang
really depends on the situation here's
what Lao Tzu wrote in chapter 2 of the
daodejing
being and non-being produce each other
difficult and easy complement each other
long and short define each other high
and low oppose each other four and aft
follow each other and quote each example
given has a yin and yang element in it
both yin and yang complement each other
yin represents a series of
characteristics that are generally
passive empty low cold and dark in
nature things like passivity and
emptiness seem of little value but they
actually Harbor an immense power which
I'll talk about in a minute we can
describe yang as the active and
masculine element that is generally
found in things like light warmth height
fullness aggression and speed so if we
look at the verses from the daodejing we
can say that long is considered yang
while short is considered yin being is
considered yang while non being is
considered in one cannot exist without
the other
and whether one is he in or yang depends
on the relationship between the two now
while the functionality of yang seems
obvious the value of V in is often
overlooked yet it contains great power a
good example to show this power is the
functionality of a mug the yang aspects
of the mug are the material that it's
made of which is most likely hard and
dry material so what makes the mark
really useful the answer is its
emptiness without emptiness and
mug can't hold any liquids if we look at
emptiness in this way we'll see that
it's a vital part of everything we do
without the emptiness of the space
around us we can't punch or shoot a
soccer ball without emptiness in sound
we can speak because we need pauses to
separate the tones we can't enter a room
that isn't empty and without a vast
empty space in the universe our solar
system wouldn't function another aspect
of yin is it specific society looks down
on passivity it's all about being
proactive getting results going from
point A to point B and action over
cessation because of this we generally
lack respect for the passive element of
life this is strange when we think about
it since passivity is essential for
every form of accomplishment take
strength training for example muscles
aren't built in the gym they're built in
bed on a couch and in any situation in
which they don't work so that the course
of nature can rebuild the muscle tissue
so they turn out stronger for the next
lifting session a key characteristic of
Yin is receptiveness and because of its
receptiveness it attracts we see this
dynamic everywhere in nature from
flowers waiting to be pollinated by
insects to a beautiful woman in a bar
who is waiting for a man to make the
first move and even a black hole that
just sits there without actively
reaching out while its gravitational
forces attract everything that comes
nearby Lao Tzu also describes in as soft
as he compares it to water in relation
to hard rock which is the yang aspect in
relation to the water the Grand Canyon
is proof that water overcomes the heart
without striving on the other hand in is
nowhere without yang warmth and light
for example are necessary for life and
emptiness becomes only useful when
there's something built around it also a
flower can only be pollinated if insects
actively approach it and do what they
need to do but if we look closer we see
that in masculine
aspect within a certain context always
carries a feminine aspect and vice-versa
the B for example can be considered yang
in relation to the flower but the bee
itself contains in and yang aspects like
emptiness versus fullness defensiveness
versus offensiveness and passivity
versus activity even when we look at
every component of the B separately
we'll find a masculine and feminine
aspect until we reach the level of the
atom in which we encounter a positively
charged core surrounded by negatively
charged electrons the yin and yang
pattern is the essence of binary code
that solely consists of ones and zeros
as philosopher Alan Watts puts it you
could say that all your perceptions in
all their variety and all their color
are made up of a vast composite of
little yeses and little knows and quote
looking at the complementary nature of
yin and yang we can say that both
feminine and masculine keep each other
in check when one becomes too dominant
the other will grow until it becomes
dominant and then the other side will
grow one of the most clear examples is
politics which goes from left to right
from conservative to liberal and so on
Lao Tzu wrote that no movement is
possible if an opposite movement hasn't
occurred before it I quote if you want
something to return to the source you
must first allow it to spread out if you
want something to weaken you must first
allow to become strong if you want
something to be removed you must first
allow it to flourish if you want to
possess something you must first give it
away and quote thus we could say that
everything is a complementary
manifestation or perhaps a dance between
a masculine and the feminine yin and
yang complement each other create each
other support each other
regulate each other and transform each
other the latter we see when a male and
female reproduce and by merging the
feminine and masculine a child is
created that
again consists of innumerable yen's and
yaks in and yen is everywhere in every
object every living organism every cell
and every single component that can be
endlessly divided in masculine and
feminine non doing or effortless action
also called hue by the Daoists is a
practice that actually harvests the
power of both yin and yang the trick is
knowing when to act and when not to so
our actions won't be strenuous but more
in a flow state thus by embracing Yin we
become more receptive for the natural
course of the universe in many cases
there's no need to act an
over-enthusiastic salesman scares away
potential clients and an overly clingy
girlfriend scares away the man she is in
a relationship with many problems solve
themselves furthermore acting oftentimes
only worsens the situation by backing
off we enter a yin state the key is
knowing when to back off and when not to
too much passivity can be as bad as too
little no matter what you do there will
always be a dark and light side to
everything your food only tastes
delicious because you've tried something
disgusting in the past
you're only pretty because someone else
is ugly you're only rich because other
people are poor therefore you need the
disgusting food to enjoy the good food
you need ugly people in order to be
pretty and you need the poor to be rich
because without the opposites there's
nothing to support your position in the
hierarchy with the invaluable knowledge
that there can be one without the other
we might want to be more thankful to
that nasty co-worker that guy who cuts
us off in traffic those barbaric people
in other countries with different
cultures and beliefs and that drug
dealer at the corner of the street
because thanks to them we can look in a
mirror and say I'm such a good person
thank you for watching
[Music]
you